**C. 8 Indeclinable indications** 
 **a. Indeclinable-Defining indication** (*nipātaliṅgapadasaṃvaṇṇanā*) 
 
 **Ex. Itī**ti nipāto. 
 The phrase *nipāto* indicates that *iti* is an indeclinable. 
 
 **b. Indeclinable-sense indication** (*nipātaliṅgatthasaṃvaṇṇanā*) 
 
 **Ex. Khalū**ti anussavanatthe nipāto. 
 
 The phrase *anussavanatthe* indicates that the indeclinable *khalu* has the 
sense, "hearsay, report". 

 **C.9 Literal Sense indication** (*saddābhidheyyatthasaṃvaṇṇanā*) 
 
 All *sense* indications given above, such as those of nominal *sense*, *compound con-
tent* etc. are termed *literal sense* indications, for they each suggest the sense derived from 
one or other grammatical entity. 

 Ex. Bhūmiṃ gato **bhūmigato**. 

(Besides being a Compound Content indication), the phrase " Bhūmiṃ gato " 
indicates that the word *bhūmigato* **literally** means " the one who goes to the 
ground". 

 **C. 10 Contextual Sense indication** (*sarupābhidheyyatthasaṃvaṇṇanā*) 
 
 **Ex**. Bujjhatīti **buddho**, bhagavā. The phrase, *bhagavā* indicates that *buddho* means here the Lord Buddha, i.e. 
not all those who know. 
 
**C.11 Synonymic Sense indication** (*pariyāyābhidheyyatthasaṃvaṇṇanā*) 
**Ex. Poso**ti *puriso* The phrase puriso indicates that *poso* is a synonym of *puriso* meaning, 
"man". 
 
**C.12 Ordinary Explanation** (*bhāvatthasaṃvaṇṇanā*) 

All comment units outside the scope of those above are viewed as ordinary explana-
tions. 

**Ex. jānātī**ti sabbaṃ jānāti 
 The phrase *sabbaṃ* indicates that the sense of knowing conveyed by *jānāti* means 
knowing everything. 
ñññññññññññññññññññññññññññññññññññññññññññññññññ